=== Clause: Multi-Function Electronic Meters (1.20.4) ===

Clause Text:
a) Multi-function electronic meter shall be of a digital display type to measure the following electrical parameters by means of microprocessor technology
Minimum
Function of Measurement
Accuracy
True Root Mean Square (RMS) Current: per phase & neutral ±0.5%
True RMS Volts: all phase-to-phase & phase-to-neutral ±0.5%
Real Power (kW): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%
Apparent Power (kVA): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%
Reactive Power (kVAr): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%
Total Power Factor: per phase & three phase total ±0.5%
Frequency (Hz) ±0.5%
Maximum Demand Current (Id): per phase, present & peak ±0.5%
Real Power Demand (kWd): three phase total, present & peak ±0.5%
Apparent Power Demand (kVAd): three phase total, present & peak ±0.5%
Reactive Power Demand (kVArd): three phase total ±0.5%
Real Energy (kWh): three phase total ±0.5%
Total Harmonic Distortion (THD): per phase, voltage & current (at ±1% least up to 31st harmonic order)
waveform on
voltages and currents on trigger. After a trigger the meter can store up to 100 waveforms with a resolution from 1024 samples/cycle as a minimum
As a minimum, the meter shall be able to provide the following functions:
• On-board memory up to 8 GB.
• Up to 10 programmable recordings with different start and stop time
• provides event recording, waveform capture, waveform display, phasor diagrams,
historical trending, time-of-use etc.
• records of individual order for even and odd harmonic of voltage and current up to 50th order
• Provide a RS485 and/or TCP/IP communication interface to the metering communication network
• Meters shall be tested to IEC 60255 & 61000 Pt 4 & 6.
Others include:
a) Cross triggering. All disturbances will cause all channels (voltage, current, and any additional channels) to be recorded.
b) Triggering shall be on both the line-to-neutral and line-to-line channels. All disturbances will result in recording of both line-to-neutral and line-to-line voltage waveforms.
c) RMS Disturbances.
i) The unit will trigger on one-cycle or longer variations in the rms voltage level, outside user-defined thresholds. Triggering thresholds will be user-defined for both voltages (L-N and L-L) and currents.
ii) The monitor shall characterize rms disturbances according to the requirements of IEC 61000-4-30.
iii) Both waveforms and rms plots will be recorded for rms disturbances.
iv) The initiation of a trigger will cause the instrument to store a trend plot of the rms voltage during the disturbance (both L-N and L-L rms plots will be recorded). This trend will include a minimum of 5 cycles of pre-trigger data, and 25 cycles of post-event data. The pre-event and post-event durations will be user-defined.
v) The initiation of a trigger will cause the instrument to store the actual waveforms (voltage and current) during the disturbance. The waveform recording will include user-defined pre-event and post-event cycles.

1. PowerLogic PM5760 (Score: 17)
   - Description: The PM5760 combines advanced power quality analysis with residual current measurement. It includes sag/swell detection, waveform capture, and two RCM inputs, providing a comprehensive solution for critical facilities that need to monitor both power quality and potential equipment insulation issues.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Records of individual order for even and odd harmonic of voltage and current up to 50th order, Up to 10 programmable recordings with different start and stop time, Real Power (kW): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, Event recording, waveform capture, waveform display, phasor diagrams, historical trending, time-of-use etc., On-board memory up to 8 GB, Reactive Power (kVAr): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, RS485 and/or TCP/IP communication interface to the metering communication network, Frequency (Hz) ±0.5%, Waveform on, Apparent Power (kVA): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, Real Energy (kWh): three phase total ±0.5%
2. Acti9 iEM3255 (Score: 9)
   - Description: The iEM3255 is a current transformer (CT) connected energy meter offering high accuracy (Class 0.5S) for billing applications. It provides four-quadrant energy measurement, a digital I/O, multi-tariff functions, and Modbus communication, making it ideal for monitoring mains or critical feeders in low and medium voltage networks.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Records of individual order for even and odd harmonic of voltage and current up to 50th order, Up to 10 programmable recordings with different start and stop time, Both waveforms and rms plots will be recorded for rms disturbances., Triggering shall be on both the line-to-neutral and line-to-line channels. All disturbances will result in recording of both line-to-neutral and line-to-line voltage waveforms., Initiation of a trigger will cause the instrument to store the actual waveforms (voltage and current) during the disturbance. The waveform recording will include user-defined pre-event and post-event cycles., RMS Disturbances, Total Harmonic Distortion (THD): per phase, voltage & current (at ±1% least up to 31st harmonic order), Event recording, waveform capture, waveform display, phasor diagrams, historical trending, time-of-use etc., On-board memory up to 8 GB, The unit will trigger on one-cycle or longer variations in the rms voltage level, outside user-defined thresholds. Triggering thresholds will be user-defined for both voltages (L-N and L-L) and currents., Total Power Factor: per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, RS485 and/or TCP/IP communication interface to the metering communication network, Frequency (Hz) ±0.5%, Waveform on, Apparent Power (kVA): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, Monitor shall characterize rms disturbances according to the requirements of IEC 61000-4-30., Initiation of a trigger will cause the instrument to store a trend plot of the rms voltage during the disturbance (both L-N and L-L rms plots will be recorded). This trend will include a minimum of 5 cycles of pre-trigger data, and 25 cycles of post-event data. The pre-event and post-event durations will be user-defined., Apparent Power Demand (kVAd): three phase total, present & peak ±0.5%, Cross triggering. All disturbances will cause all channels (voltage, current, and any additional channels) to be recorded.
3. PowerLogic ION9000 (Score: 8)
   - Description: The PowerLogic ION9000 is a premium revenue and power quality meter offering Class 0.1S accuracy and certified Class A power quality analysis. It provides extensive data logging, root cause analysis features like disturbance direction detection, and robust cybersecurity protocols, making it ideal for critical power applications in large facilities and utilities.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Records of individual order for even and odd harmonic of voltage and current up to 50th order, Up to 10 programmable recordings with different start and stop time, Both waveforms and rms plots will be recorded for rms disturbances., Triggering shall be on both the line-to-neutral and line-to-line channels. All disturbances will result in recording of both line-to-neutral and line-to-line voltage waveforms., Initiation of a trigger will cause the instrument to store the actual waveforms (voltage and current) during the disturbance. The waveform recording will include user-defined pre-event and post-event cycles., True RMS Volts: all phase-to-phase & phase-to-neutral ±0.5%, RMS Disturbances, Total Harmonic Distortion (THD): per phase, voltage & current (at ±1% least up to 31st harmonic order), Event recording, waveform capture, waveform display, phasor diagrams, historical trending, time-of-use etc., On-board memory up to 8 GB, The unit will trigger on one-cycle or longer variations in the rms voltage level, outside user-defined thresholds. Triggering thresholds will be user-defined for both voltages (L-N and L-L) and currents., Voltages and currents on trigger, Maximum Demand Current (Id): per phase, present & peak ±0.5%, Total Power Factor: per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, RS485 and/or TCP/IP communication interface to the metering communication network, Frequency (Hz) ±0.5%, Waveform on, Apparent Power (kVA): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, Monitor shall characterize rms disturbances according to the requirements of IEC 61000-4-30., Cross triggering. All disturbances will cause all channels (voltage, current, and any additional channels) to be recorded.


=== Clause: Power Quality Meters (PQM) (1.20.5) ===

Clause Text:
Where indicated on the drawings (HV/LT MSB) provide a microprocessor based DIN LCD Quality Power Meter with RS485 and/or TCP/IP communications to interface with the EMS system.
PM denotes for HT switchboards and PQM for LV switchboards.
As a minimum the Meter shall provide the following information, with a minimum of 0.5% accuracy through a LCD display:
• True RMS voltage (Line to Line Voltage)
• True RMS voltage (Line to Neutral Voltage)
• Frequency
• Line and system currents
• System power (active, apparent and reactive)
• Peak average demand, kVA and kW
• Harmonics, Vthd and Ithd and harmonic spectrum up to 50th harmonic
• Power factor

1. PowerLogic PM8240 (Score: 3)
   - Description: The PM8240 is a standard power meter for comprehensive power quality analysis and monitoring. It enhances on the essential model with a higher sampling rate of 256 samples/cycle, significantly more memory (512 MB) for up to 50 data recorders, and Class S power quality measurement according to IEC 61000-4-30.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Harmonics, Vthd and Ithd and harmonic spectrum up to 50th harmonic, True RMS voltage (Line to Line Voltage), True RMS voltage (Line to Neutral Voltage), Line and system currents, Peak average demand, kVA and kW
2. PowerLogic PM8310 (Score: 3)
   - Description: The PM8310 is the low-voltage DC variant of the Advanced power meter. It provides the highest sampling rate and Class A power quality analysis for critical applications, and is designed for systems with a 20-60 V DC control power supply.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Frequency, Harmonics, Vthd and Ithd and harmonic spectrum up to 50th harmonic, Power factor, Line and system currents, Peak average demand, kVA and kW
3. PowerLogic PM5760 (Score: 3)
   - Description: The PM5760 combines advanced power quality analysis with residual current measurement. It includes sag/swell detection, waveform capture, and two RCM inputs, providing a comprehensive solution for critical facilities that need to monitor both power quality and potential equipment insulation issues.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Frequency, System power (active, apparent and reactive), Harmonics, Vthd and Ithd and harmonic spectrum up to 50th harmonic, Power factor, Peak average demand, kVA and kW


=== Clause: Power Quality Meters (1.20.5) ===

Clause Text:
1.20.7 PQM Characterizing steady state quantities
a) The unit shall trend Voltage, current, power factor, kW, kVAR, and energy. Individual phase quantities and three phase quantities shall be available. These will be provided as maximum, minimum, and average values at user-specified intervals based on continuous sampling and calculation.
b) Steady state voltage and current profiling
i) A daily trend of envelope data shall be recorded for voltage and current. This trend shall store for each sampling interval (user-specified with a default to ten minutes per IEC specifications) the minimum cycle rms value, maximum cycle rms value, and average rms value over all cycles in the ten minute interval. This information shall be available for all three phases of the voltage and current.
ii) Any violations of the sustained RMS voltage regulation values (duration > 60 seconds and magnitude user definable) shall be recorded and “alarmable”. The total amount of time the regulation limit was violated for each event shall also be recorded.

1. PowerLogic PM8310 (Score: 3)
   - Description: The PM8310 is the low-voltage DC variant of the Advanced power meter. It provides the highest sampling rate and Class A power quality analysis for critical applications, and is designed for systems with a 20-60 V DC control power supply.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Daily trend of envelope data recorded for voltage and current, Individual phase quantities and three phase quantities available, Total amount of time the regulation limit was violated for each event recorded
2. Acti9 iEM3255 (Score: 2)
   - Description: The iEM3255 is a current transformer (CT) connected energy meter offering high accuracy (Class 0.5S) for billing applications. It provides four-quadrant energy measurement, a digital I/O, multi-tariff functions, and Modbus communication, making it ideal for monitoring mains or critical feeders in low and medium voltage networks.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Individual phase quantities and three phase quantities available, Total amount of time the regulation limit was violated for each event recorded, Violations of sustained RMS voltage regulation values recorded and alarmable, Maximum, minimum, and average values at user-specified intervals based on continuous sampling and calculation
3. EasyLogic PM2230 (Score: 2)
   - Description: The PM2230 is the premium model in the series, ideal for critical applications such as sub-billing and advanced power quality analysis. It should be selected when the highest accuracy (Class 0.5S) , detailed harmonic analysis (up to 31st) , data logging, alarming, multi-tariff functions , and I/O expandability  are required.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Trending Voltage, current, power factor, kW, kVAR, and energy, Daily trend of envelope data recorded for voltage and current, Total amount of time the regulation limit was violated for each event recorded, Violations of sustained RMS voltage regulation values recorded and alarmable


=== Clause: Digital Power Meter (DM) ===

Clause Text:
1.20.8 Digital Power Meter (DM)
a) All digital power meter shall be verified by either tested and certification by a laboratory accredited by SAC-SINGLAS or recognised by SAC-SINGLAS.
b) Provide manual link bypass for direct connected meters to maintain continuity of supply during meter servicing or replacement.
c) All meters receiving supply from a PV solar connection shall be bi-directional.
d) Records confirming the satisfactory testing of power meter required to be tested under sections 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 of Singapore Metering Code are to be produced when requested upon.
e) The power meter accuracy shall comply to Singapore Metering Code 2.4.29 with accuracy class 0.5 or better. While the metering current transformers of accuracy class 0.5 with 5 amperes secondary current and 5VA burden.
f) The meter memory shall be tamper-free and allow no resettable of kWh value.
g) The data from the meter shall be collected via built in communication interface Modbus RTU (RS485).
h) Communication terminals shall be protected by suitable surge protective device.
i) The kWh meter shall be applied in three-phase, four wired systems. In four-wire connection, the kWh meter shall utilise the circuit neutral common reference and not earth ground to provide metering accuracy.
j) The kWh meter shall be capable of being applied without modification at nominal frequency of 50Hz.
EL/91

[TABLE 1]

[/TABLE 1]

[TABLE 2]
 | 
 | 
[/TABLE 2]

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION – ELECTRICAL SERVICES
k) The kWh meter shall include instantaneous quantity and accessible via communication interface to an energy management software:
i) Current, per phase RMS, three-phase.
ii) Voltage, phase-to-phase, phase to neutral, and three-phase average (phase-to-phase and phase-to-neutral)
iii) Real power, per phase and three-phase total
iv) Power factor, per phase and three-phase total
v) Frequency
l) The electricity meter shall have the following EMC compatibility:
i) Impulse voltage test: 6 kV 1.2/50 μs (IEC 60060-1)
ii) Surge voltage test: 4kV 1.2/50 μs (IEC 61000-4-5)
iii) Immunity to disturbance with harmonics: 2kHz – 150kHz
iv) Immunity to electromagnetic HF-fields: 80 MHz – 2 GHz at 10 V/m
v) IEC 61000-4-3
vi) Radio frequency emission: EB 55022, class B
vii) Electrostatic discharge: 15 kV (IEC 61000-4-2)
viii) All sub meters (electrical, medical gas, water etc) shall be able to communicate with the EMS for analysing. The energy analyser shall have built-in web user interface via IP connection to allow remote monitoring. The user interface shall have configurable dashboards and graphical analysis functions (historical data, benchmark, instantaneous values, and consumption).
Meters/devices connected via Modbus RS485 shall be limited to 15 nos. for maximum latency.

1. PowerLogic PM8240 (Score: 10)
   - Description: The PM8240 is a standard power meter for comprehensive power quality analysis and monitoring. It enhances on the essential model with a higher sampling rate of 256 samples/cycle, significantly more memory (512 MB) for up to 50 data recorders, and Class S power quality measurement according to IEC 61000-4-30.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: EMC compatibility, KWh meter shall be applied in three-phase, four wired systems. In four-wire connection, the kWh meter shall utilise the circuit neutral common reference and not earth ground to provide metering accuracy, Surge voltage test: 4kV 1.2/50 μs (IEC 61000-4-5), Current, per phase RMS, three-phase, Immunity to disturbance with harmonics: 2kHz – 150kHz, All meters receiving supply from a PV solar connection shall be bi-directional, Instantaneous quantity and accessible via communication interface to an energy management software, Manual link bypass for direct connected meters to maintain continuity of supply during meter servicing or replacement, Impulse voltage test: 6 kV 1.2/50 μs (IEC 60060-1), Radio frequency emission: EB 55022, class B, Communication terminals shall be protected by suitable surge protective device, Immunity to electromagnetic HF-fields: 80 MHz – 2 GHz at 10 V/m, Voltage, phase-to-phase, phase to neutral, and three-phase average (phase-to-phase and phase-to-neutral), All sub meters (electrical, medical gas, water etc) shall be able to communicate with the EMS for analysing. The energy analyser shall have built-in web user interface via IP connection to allow remote monitoring. The user interface shall have configurable dashboards and graphical analysis functions (historical data, benchmark, instantaneous values, and consumption), Data from the meter shall be collected via built in communication interface Modbus RTU (RS485)
2. PowerLogic PM5760 (Score: 9)
   - Description: The PM5760 combines advanced power quality analysis with residual current measurement. It includes sag/swell detection, waveform capture, and two RCM inputs, providing a comprehensive solution for critical facilities that need to monitor both power quality and potential equipment insulation issues.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Records confirming the satisfactory testing of power meter required to be tested under sections 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 of Singapore Metering Code are to be produced when requested upon, EMC compatibility, Electrostatic discharge: 15 kV (IEC 61000-4-2), KWh meter shall be applied in three-phase, four wired systems. In four-wire connection, the kWh meter shall utilise the circuit neutral common reference and not earth ground to provide metering accuracy, Immunity to disturbance with harmonics: 2kHz – 150kHz, Power meter accuracy shall comply to Singapore Metering Code 2.4.29 with accuracy class 0.5 or better, All meters receiving supply from a PV solar connection shall be bi-directional, Instantaneous quantity and accessible via communication interface to an energy management software, Manual link bypass for direct connected meters to maintain continuity of supply during meter servicing or replacement, Frequency, KWh meter shall be capable of being applied without modification at nominal frequency of 50Hz, Radio frequency emission: EB 55022, class B, Immunity to electromagnetic HF-fields: 80 MHz – 2 GHz at 10 V/m, All sub meters (electrical, medical gas, water etc) shall be able to communicate with the EMS for analysing. The energy analyser shall have built-in web user interface via IP connection to allow remote monitoring. The user interface shall have configurable dashboards and graphical analysis functions (historical data, benchmark, instantaneous values, and consumption), Meter memory shall be tamper-free and allow no resettable of kWh value, Data from the meter shall be collected via built in communication interface Modbus RTU (RS485)
3. PowerLogic PM5560 (Score: 7)
   - Description: The PM5560 is a high-accuracy power meter designed for comprehensive energy and cost management. It features a full range of measurements, including harmonics up to the 63rd, extensive data logging capabilities, and multiple communication protocols including Modbus TCP and BACnet/IP.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Records confirming the satisfactory testing of power meter required to be tested under sections 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 of Singapore Metering Code are to be produced when requested upon, EMC compatibility, Electrostatic discharge: 15 kV (IEC 61000-4-2), Real power, per phase and three-phase total, Current, per phase RMS, three-phase, All meters receiving supply from a PV solar connection shall be bi-directional, Instantaneous quantity and accessible via communication interface to an energy management software, Manual link bypass for direct connected meters to maintain continuity of supply during meter servicing or replacement, Verified by either tested and certification by a laboratory accredited by SAC-SINGLAS or recognised by SAC-SINGLAS, Radio frequency emission: EB 55022, class B, Communication terminals shall be protected by suitable surge protective device, Immunity to electromagnetic HF-fields: 80 MHz – 2 GHz at 10 V/m, Voltage, phase-to-phase, phase to neutral, and three-phase average (phase-to-phase and phase-to-neutral), All sub meters (electrical, medical gas, water etc) shall be able to communicate with the EMS for analysing. The energy analyser shall have built-in web user interface via IP connection to allow remote monitoring. The user interface shall have configurable dashboards and graphical analysis functions (historical data, benchmark, instantaneous values, and consumption), Power factor, per phase and three-phase total, IEC 61000-4-3, Meter memory shall be tamper-free and allow no resettable of kWh value, Data from the meter shall be collected via built in communication interface Modbus RTU (RS485)