=== Clause: Multi-Function Electronic Meters (1.20.4) ===

Clause Text:
Multi-function electronic meter shall be of a digital display type to measure the following electrical parameters by means of microprocessor technology
a) Multi-function electronic meter shall be of a digital display type to measure the following electrical parameters by means of microprocessor technology
Minimum
Function of Measurement
Accuracy
True Root Mean Square (RMS) Current: per phase & neutral ±0.5%
True RMS Volts: all phase-to-phase & phase-to-neutral ±0.5%
Real Power (kW): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%
Apparent Power (kVA): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%
Reactive Power (kVAr): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%
Total Power Factor: per phase & three phase total ±0.5%
Frequency (Hz) ±0.5%
Maximum Demand Current (Id): per phase, present & peak ±0.5%
Real Power Demand (kWd): three phase total, present & peak ±0.5%
Apparent Power Demand (kVAd): three phase total, present & peak ±0.5%
Reactive Power Demand (kVArd): three phase total ±0.5%
Real Energy (kWh): three phase total ±0.5%
Total Harmonic Distortion (THD): per phase, voltage & current (at ±1% least up to 31st harmonic order)
b) The meter shall be suitable for operation at 400V/230V, 50Hz and accepts current inputs from standard measuring current transformers with rated secondary current of 5A. The meter shall be rated for an operating temperature up to 50°C and have a minimum overcurrent withstand rating of 100A for 1 second;
c) The meter shall be capable to trend the required parameters as stipulated in the EMA at every 15 minutes and include hourly, daily, monthly and annual data. The meter shall be equipped with sufficient built-in memory capable of maintaining all data collected for a minimum of 36 months. The Contractor shall retrieve the data files from all meters and submit to the Employer on annual basis or as required by the Employer during the Defect Liability Period;
d) The meter shall be equipped with a communication port at front panel, using either RS485, RJ45 or similar socket and plug as Approved, for communication with portable personal computer for energy control and audit purpose. The connection cable with the appropriate plug and a copy of proprietary-made software for data retrieval shall be provided;
waveform on
voltages and currents on trigger. After a trigger the meter can store up to 100 waveforms with a resolution from 1024 samples/cycle as a minimum
As a minimum, the meter shall be able to provide the following functions:
• On-board memory up to 8 GB.
• Up to 10 programmable recordings with different start and stop time
• provides event recording, waveform capture, waveform display, phasor diagrams,
historical trending, time-of-use etc.
• records of individual order for even and odd harmonic of voltage and current up to 50th order
• Provide a RS485 and/or TCP/IP communication interface to the metering communication network
• Meters shall be tested to IEC 60255 & 61000 Pt 4 & 6.

1. Acti9 iEM3255 (Score: 10)
   - Description: The iEM3255 is a current transformer (CT) connected energy meter offering high accuracy (Class 0.5S) for billing applications. It provides four-quadrant energy measurement, a digital I/O, multi-tariff functions, and Modbus communication, making it ideal for monitoring mains or critical feeders in low and medium voltage networks.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Apparent Power (kVA): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, On-board memory up to 8 GB, Apparent Power Demand (kVAd): three phase total, present & peak ±0.5%, Waveform on, Total Power Factor: per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, Provide a RS485 and/or TCP/IP communication interface to the metering communication network, Records of individual order for even and odd harmonic of voltage and current up to 50th order, Up to 10 programmable recordings with different start and stop time, Event recording, waveform capture, waveform display, phasor diagrams, historical trending, time-of-use etc., Total Harmonic Distortion (THD): per phase, voltage & current (at ±1% least up to 31st harmonic order), Frequency (Hz) ±0.5%
2. PowerLogic PM5760 (Score: 9)
   - Description: The PM5760 combines advanced power quality analysis with residual current measurement. It includes sag/swell detection, waveform capture, and two RCM inputs, providing a comprehensive solution for critical facilities that need to monitor both power quality and potential equipment insulation issues.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Apparent Power (kVA): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, Real Power (kW): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, On-board memory up to 8 GB, Reactive Power (kVAr): per phase & three phase total ±0.5%, Waveform on, Provide a RS485 and/or TCP/IP communication interface to the metering communication network, Records of individual order for even and odd harmonic of voltage and current up to 50th order, Real Energy (kWh): three phase total ±0.5%, Up to 10 programmable recordings with different start and stop time, Meters shall be tested to IEC 60255 & 61000 Pt 4 & 6, Event recording, waveform capture, waveform display, phasor diagrams, historical trending, time-of-use etc., Frequency (Hz) ±0.5%
3. PowerLogic PM8240 (Score: 7)
   - Description: The PM8240 is a standard power meter for comprehensive power quality analysis and monitoring. It enhances on the essential model with a higher sampling rate of 256 samples/cycle, significantly more memory (512 MB) for up to 50 data recorders, and Class S power quality measurement according to IEC 61000-4-30.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Apparent Power Demand (kVAd): three phase total, present & peak ±0.5%, True Root Mean Square (RMS) Current: per phase & neutral ±0.5%, Waveform on, Provide a RS485 and/or TCP/IP communication interface to the metering communication network, True RMS Volts: all phase-to-phase & phase-to-neutral ±0.5%, Records of individual order for even and odd harmonic of voltage and current up to 50th order, Real Energy (kWh): three phase total ±0.5%, Real Power Demand (kWd): three phase total, present & peak ±0.5%, Up to 10 programmable recordings with different start and stop time, Event recording, waveform capture, waveform display, phasor diagrams, historical trending, time-of-use etc., Total Harmonic Distortion (THD): per phase, voltage & current (at ±1% least up to 31st harmonic order), Reactive Power Demand (kVArd): three phase total ±0.5%, Maximum Demand Current (Id): per phase, present & peak ±0.5%, Voltages and currents on trigger


=== Clause: Power Quality Meters (1.20.5) ===

Clause Text:
Where indicated on the drawings (HV/LT MSB) provide a microprocessor based DIN LCD Quality Power Meter with RS485 and/or TCP/IP communications to interface with the EMS system.
PM denotes for HT switchboards and PQM for LV switchboards.
As a minimum the Meter shall provide the following information, with a minimum of 0.5% accuracy through a LCD display:
• True RMS voltage (Line to Line Voltage)
• True RMS voltage (Line to Neutral Voltage)
• Frequency
• Line and system currents
• System power (active, apparent and reactive)
• Peak average demand, kVA and kW
• Harmonics, Vthd and Ithd and harmonic spectrum up to 50th harmonic
• Power factor
a) Cross triggering. All disturbances will cause all channels (voltage, current, and any
additional channels) to be recorded.
b) Triggering shall be on both the line-to-neutral and line-to-line channels. All disturbances
will result in recording of both line-to-neutral and line-to-line voltage waveforms.
c) RMS Disturbances.
i) The unit will trigger on one-cycle or longer variations in the rms voltage level,
outside user-defined thresholds. Triggering thresholds will be user-defined for
both voltages (L-N and L-L) and currents.
ii) The monitor shall characterize rms disturbances according to the requirements of
IEC 61000-4-30.
iii) Both waveforms and rms plots will be recorded for rms disturbances.
iv) The initiation of a trigger will cause the instrument to store a trend plot of the rms
voltage during the disturbance (both L-N and L-L rms plots will be recorded). This
trend will include a minimum of 5 cycles of pre-trigger data, and 25 cycles of post-
event data. The pre-event and post-event durations will be user-defined.
v) The initiation of a trigger will cause the instrument to store the actual waveforms
(voltage and current) during the disturbance. The waveform recording will include
user-defined pre-event and post-event cycles.

1. PowerLogic PM8310 (Score: 4)
   - Description: The PM8310 is the low-voltage DC variant of the Advanced power meter. It provides the highest sampling rate and Class A power quality analysis for critical applications, and is designed for systems with a 20-60 V DC control power supply.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Harmonics, Vthd and Ithd and harmonic spectrum up to 50th harmonic, Triggering on both the line-to-neutral and line-to-line channels, Frequency, Peak average demand, kVA and kW, Cross triggering, Power factor, Line and system currents
2. PowerLogic PM5760 (Score: 4)
   - Description: The PM5760 combines advanced power quality analysis with residual current measurement. It includes sag/swell detection, waveform capture, and two RCM inputs, providing a comprehensive solution for critical facilities that need to monitor both power quality and potential equipment insulation issues.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Harmonics, Vthd and Ithd and harmonic spectrum up to 50th harmonic, System power (active, apparent and reactive), Triggering on both the line-to-neutral and line-to-line channels, Frequency, Peak average demand, kVA and kW, Cross triggering, Power factor
3. PowerLogic PM8240 (Score: 3)
   - Description: The PM8240 is a standard power meter for comprehensive power quality analysis and monitoring. It enhances on the essential model with a higher sampling rate of 256 samples/cycle, significantly more memory (512 MB) for up to 50 data recorders, and Class S power quality measurement according to IEC 61000-4-30.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Harmonics, Vthd and Ithd and harmonic spectrum up to 50th harmonic, Triggering on both the line-to-neutral and line-to-line channels, True RMS voltage (Line to Line Voltage), RMS Disturbances, Peak average demand, kVA and kW, Cross triggering, True RMS voltage (Line to Neutral Voltage), Line and system currents


=== Clause: PQM Characterizing steady state quantities (1.20.7) ===

Clause Text:
a) The unit shall trend Voltage, current, power factor, kW, kVAR, and energy. Individual
phase quantities and three phase quantities shall be available. These will be provided as
maximum, minimum, and average values at user-specified intervals based on continuous
sampling and calculation.
b) Steady state voltage and current profiling
i) A daily trend of envelope data shall be recorded for voltage and current. This
trend shall store for each sampling interval (user-specified with a default to ten
minutes per IEC specifications) the minimum cycle rms value, maximum cycle rms
value, and average rms value over all cycles in the ten minute interval. This
information shall be available for all three phases of the voltage and current.
ii) Any violations of the sustained RMS voltage regulation values (duration > 60
seconds and magnitude user definable) shall be recorded and “alarmable”. The
total amount of time the regulation limit was violated for each event shall also be
recorded.
c) Frequency envelopes (min, max and average) time trends shall be available.

1. PowerLogic PM8310 (Score: 2)
   - Description: The PM8310 is the low-voltage DC variant of the Advanced power meter. It provides the highest sampling rate and Class A power quality analysis for critical applications, and is designed for systems with a 20-60 V DC control power supply.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Frequency envelopes (min, max and average) time trends
2. PowerLogic ION9000T (Score: 2)
   - Description: The PowerLogic ION9000T extends the capabilities of the advanced ION9000 by adding high-speed transient capture. It detects sub-microsecond transients up to 10 kV with a 10 MHz sampling rate, providing unparalleled insight into transient events for mission-critical power systems.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Trend Voltage, current, power factor, kW, kVAR, and energy
3. Acti9 iEM3255 (Score: 1)
   - Description: The iEM3255 is a current transformer (CT) connected energy meter offering high accuracy (Class 0.5S) for billing applications. It provides four-quadrant energy measurement, a digital I/O, multi-tariff functions, and Modbus communication, making it ideal for monitoring mains or critical feeders in low and medium voltage networks.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Frequency envelopes (min, max and average) time trends, Steady state voltage and current profiling


=== Clause: Digital Power Meter (DM) (1.20.8) ===

Clause Text:
a) All digital power meter shall be verified by either tested and certification by a laboratory
accredited by SAC-SINGLAS or recognised by SAC-SINGLAS.
b) Provide manual link bypass for direct connected meters to maintain continuity of supply
during meter servicing or replacement.
c) All meters receiving supply from a PV solar connection shall be bi-directional.
d) Records confirming the satisfactory testing of power meter required to be tested under
sections 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 of Singapore Metering Code are to be produced when requested
upon.
e) The power meter accuracy shall comply to Singapore Metering Code 2.4.29 with
accuracy class 0.5 or better. While the metering current transformers of accuracy class
0.5 with 5 amperes secondary current and 5VA burden
g) The meter memory shall be tamper-free and allow no resettable of kWh value.
h) The data from the meter shall be collected via built in communication interface Modbus
RTU (RS485).
i) Communication terminals shall be protected by suitable surge protective device.
j) The kWh meter shall be applied in three-phase, four wired systems. In four-wire
connection, the kWh meter shall utilise the circuit neutral common reference and not
earth ground to provide metering accuracy.
k) The kWh meter shall be capable of being applied without modification at nominal
frequency of 50Hz.
l) The kWh meter shall include instantaneous quantity and accessible via communication
interface to an energy management software:
i) Current, per phase RMS, three-phase.
ii) Voltage, phase-to-phase, phase to neutral, and three-phase average (phase-to-
phase and phase-to-neutral)
iii) Real power, per phase and three-phase total
iv) Power factor, per phase and three-phase total
v) Frequency
l) The electricity meter shall have the following EMC compatibility:
i) Impulse voltage test: 6 kV 1.2/50 μs (IEC 60060-1)
ii) Surge voltage test: 4kV 1.2/50 μs (IEC 61000-4-5)
iii) Immunity to disturbance with harmonics: 2kHz – 150kHz
iv) Immunity to electromagnetic HF-fields: 80 MHz – 2 GHz at 10 V/m
v) IEC 61000-4-3
vi) Radio frequency emission: EB 55022, class B
vii) Electrostatic discharge: 15 kV (IEC 61000-4-2)
m) All sub meters (electrical, medical gas, water etc) shall be able to communicate with the
EMS for analysing. The energy analyser shall have built-in web user interface via IP
connection to allow remote monitoring. The user interface shall have configurable
dashboards and graphical analysis functions (historical data, benchmark, instantaneous
values, and consumption).

1. PowerLogic PM8240 (Score: 6)
   - Description: The PM8240 is a standard power meter for comprehensive power quality analysis and monitoring. It enhances on the essential model with a higher sampling rate of 256 samples/cycle, significantly more memory (512 MB) for up to 50 data recorders, and Class S power quality measurement according to IEC 61000-4-30.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Communication terminals shall be protected by suitable surge protective device, Provide manual link bypass for direct connected meters to maintain continuity of supply
during meter servicing or replacement, The power meter accuracy shall comply to Singapore Metering Code 2.4.29 with
accuracy class 0.5 or better. While the metering current transformers of accuracy class
0.5 with 5 amperes secondary current and 5VA burden, All meters receiving supply from a PV solar connection shall be bi-directional, All sub meters (electrical, medical gas, water etc) shall be able to communicate with the
EMS for analysing. The energy analyser shall have built-in web user interface via IP
connection to allow remote monitoring. The user interface shall have configurable
dashboards and graphical analysis functions (historical data, benchmark, instantaneous
values, and consumption)., The data from the meter shall be collected via built in communication interface Modbus
RTU (RS485), The kWh meter shall be applied in three-phase, four wired systems. In four-wire
connection, the kWh meter shall utilise the circuit neutral common reference and not
earth ground to provide metering accuracy
2. PowerLogic PM5560 (Score: 4)
   - Description: The PM5560 is a high-accuracy power meter designed for comprehensive energy and cost management. It features a full range of measurements, including harmonics up to the 63rd, extensive data logging capabilities, and multiple communication protocols including Modbus TCP and BACnet/IP.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Records confirming the satisfactory testing of power meter required to be tested under
sections 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 of Singapore Metering Code are to be produced when requested
upon., Communication terminals shall be protected by suitable surge protective device, Provide manual link bypass for direct connected meters to maintain continuity of supply
during meter servicing or replacement, The electricity meter shall have the following EMC compatibility:
i) Impulse voltage test: 6 kV 1.2/50 μs (IEC 60060-1)
ii) Surge voltage test: 4kV 1.2/50 μs (IEC 61000-4-5)
iii) Immunity to disturbance with harmonics: 2kHz – 150kHz
iv) Immunity to electromagnetic HF-fields: 80 MHz – 2 GHz at 10 V/m
v) IEC 61000-4-3
vi) Radio frequency emission: EB 55022, class B
vii) Electrostatic discharge: 15 kV (IEC 61000-4-2), All digital power meter shall be verified by either tested and certification by a laboratory
accredited by SAC-SINGLAS or recognised by SAC-SINGLAS, All meters receiving supply from a PV solar connection shall be bi-directional, All sub meters (electrical, medical gas, water etc) shall be able to communicate with the
EMS for analysing. The energy analyser shall have built-in web user interface via IP
connection to allow remote monitoring. The user interface shall have configurable
dashboards and graphical analysis functions (historical data, benchmark, instantaneous
values, and consumption)., The data from the meter shall be collected via built in communication interface Modbus
RTU (RS485), The meter memory shall be tamper-free and allow no resettable of kWh value
3. PowerLogic PM8310 (Score: 4)
   - Description: The PM8310 is the low-voltage DC variant of the Advanced power meter. It provides the highest sampling rate and Class A power quality analysis for critical applications, and is designed for systems with a 20-60 V DC control power supply.
   - Shortcomings: Does not meet: Records confirming the satisfactory testing of power meter required to be tested under
sections 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 of Singapore Metering Code are to be produced when requested
upon., Communication terminals shall be protected by suitable surge protective device, Provide manual link bypass for direct connected meters to maintain continuity of supply
during meter servicing or replacement, The kWh meter shall be capable of being applied without modification at nominal
frequency of 50Hz, The kWh meter shall include instantaneous quantity and accessible via communication
interface to an energy management software:
i) Current, per phase RMS, three-phase.
ii) Voltage, phase-to-phase, phase to neutral, and three-phase average (phase-to-
phase and phase-to-neutral)
iii) Real power, per phase and three-phase total
iv) Power factor, per phase and three-phase total
v) Frequency, All sub meters (electrical, medical gas, water etc) shall be able to communicate with the
EMS for analysing. The energy analyser shall have built-in web user interface via IP
connection to allow remote monitoring. The user interface shall have configurable
dashboards and graphical analysis functions (historical data, benchmark, instantaneous
values, and consumption)., The data from the meter shall be collected via built in communication interface Modbus
RTU (RS485), The meter memory shall be tamper-free and allow no resettable of kWh value, The kWh meter shall be applied in three-phase, four wired systems. In four-wire
connection, the kWh meter shall utilise the circuit neutral common reference and not
earth ground to provide metering accuracy